ec/README.md, before:

# How to be the EC

## Ahead-of-time preparations

### For a GitHub org owner
- Create a new repository for the election
- Create an `ec-<YEAR>` team for the EC and give it admin access to the repository
- Ensure the existence of an election GitHub App, reusable for every election.
  To create it initially:
  - Have an org owner [create a new App](https://github.com/organizations/NixOS/settings/apps/new)
    - Title: Nix Elections
    - URL: https://nixos.org
    - Disable Webhooks
    - Permissions:
      - Repository Permissions > Pull Requests: Read and write
      - Repository Permissions > Contents: Read and write
      - Organization Permissions > Members: Read and write
  - Ensure the App is installed on the org
  - Give the App access to the current election repository
  - Set the App ID as a new repository variable named `APP_ID`
  - Generate a private key for the App and set it as a new repository secret named `PRIVATE_KEY`

### For the admins of the `nixos.org` mailserver
- Set up `elections@nixos.org` as an alias for the EC members addresses
- Send the mail server, SMTP user and password to the EC members, potentially regenerating the password to revoke access to previous EC members
- Make sure that you have a good enough email setup for sending many emails

### For the Matrix admins
- Ensure that a public Matrix room for the elections is set up
- Make sure the EC has moderator permissions for the room

### For the EC
- Set the SMTP password as a new repository secret with key `SMTP_PASSWORD`
- Create a private room for the EC members to decide over things (Matrix or otherwise)
- In the repositories Moderation options, limit interactions to repository collaborators for the maximum possible duration (should be 6 months)
- Set up branch protection for the repo
- Set up a GitHub team for the voters:
  - Create a team for the voters:
    - Name: Voters <YEAR>
    - Description: Voters for the <YEAR> Steering Committee election"
    - Team visibility: Visible
    - Team notifications: Enabled
  - Remove yourself as team maintainer, the automation will maintain the team
  - Add the voter team as a repository collaborator with the read role
  - Set the team's slug (should be `voters-<YEAR>`) as a new repository variable named `VOTER_TEAM`
- Ensure that a "nomination" and "question" label exists for the repository
- Initialise the repo from the previous election.

  **Important:** Before pushing, empty `voters.json` to prevent automation from inviting all those users already

  - Remove or empty `scripts/invited.txt`
  - Remove `usersWithoutEmailAndGitHub.txt`
  - Empty `candidates`
  - Ensure the repo reflects the current version of the Nix Governance Constitution
  - Check that the voting platform is still functional and find an alternative otherwise
  - Grep for `TODO` in the repo and address it as necessary
  - Update the year
  - Update the EC contact info
  - Decide on the timeline and update it in the `README` and other places
- Pick a cut-off date and set it as `endEpoch` in [`config.nix`](../nix/config.nix).
  Set the `startEpoch` to 4 years before the `endEpoch`.

  Then prebuild the GitHub data and push it to a cache:
  ```
  nix-build -A data.prebuiltDerivations | cachix push nca
  ```

  This takes a lot of resources!
- Make a test run of everything and improve things as necessary.

  Note that if you test in a private repo, you should [enable private repo forking](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-organization-settings/managing-the-forking-policy-for-your-organization)
  and maybe [set the base organisation access](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-user-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/managing-repository-roles/setting-base-permissions-for-an-organization) to None,
  because the GitHub App invites users to the organisation, which gives them access to all private repos by default.
- Create a retro document to write things down that could be improved for the future.

### For every EC member
- Make sure every EC member can send and receive emails from `elections@nixos.org`.
  If ImprovMX is still the Mail service used, follow [this tutorial](https://help.improvmx.com/improvmx-smtp-how-tos).

  Make sure to set the identity to "Nix Election Committee" or so
- Enable notifications for the public Matrix room
- Subscribe to all activity on the election repository

## Kick-off
- Update the blocked users list:
  Get the GitHub ids using
  ```
  gh api /orgs/NixOS/blocks --jq '.[].id'
  ```

  Then Insert them into [`config.nix`](../nix/config.nix).

  Don't update this once the voters are generated.
- Generate `voters.json` using
  ```
  nix-build -A generateVoters
  ./result
  ```
- Announce it to discourse:
  ```
  nix-build ec -A announce.discourse
  ```

  Then post the contents of `result` to Discourse
- Announce it on the website, linking to discourse:
  ```
  nix-build ec -A announce.website --argstr discourseLink $DISCOURSE_LINK
  ```

  Then make a PR against [the website announcements](https://github.com/NixOS/nixos-homepage/tree/main/src/content/blog/announcements) and ping somebody from the marketing team to merge it.
- Push the generated `voters.json` to start triggering team additions
- Send the emails (needs `SMTP_PASSWORD` set):
  ```
  nix-build ec -A announce.email --argstr discourseLink $DISCOURSE_LINK
  ./result
  ```

  If any fail to send, resume using
  ```
  ./result --resume
  ```

  You can view failed sends in `jobs.log`, but you might also get mail delivery failure responses.
- Announce it on GitHub:

  Wait until both:
  - All automatically eligible voters have been invited to the team
  - All emails are sent

  ```
  nix-build ec -A announce.github --argstr discourseLink $DISCOURSE_LINK
  ```

  Then post `./result` as an issue to the election repo
- Directly contact the users in `usersWithoutEmailAndGitHub.txt`

## Pre-voting phase

- See [this process](./process.md)
- Organise the Q&A

## Starting the voting phase
- Determine which pairs of candidates share the same conflict of interest

## Post-voting phase

## Misc

- Create the candidate documents
- Making announcements
- Running CIVS
- Unsubscribe people

In case somebody is violating the Q&A rules, their access to the repo can be removed by setting their id in `voters.json` to `null`

- Write a script to check exception requests or maybe a triggerable CI action.
  - Invite the person to the repo
  - Create a PR to add them to the voters.json, and ping them in the description
  - They need to upvote the PR to get accepted
  - Don't mention the user in the commit, because it's confusing to receive an email for that
  - Tell them in the PR what they can do now

Sending reminders:
- 2024-09-23 Monday: (Reminder)
- 2024-09-30: Finalise the list of candidates, publish their documents
- 2024-10-14 Monday: (vote reminder)

Commit message:

GitHub announcement should be a PR, not an issue
While requesting a review from the voters team to get the ping working

ec/README.md, after:

# How to be the EC

## Ahead-of-time preparations

### For a GitHub org owner
- Create a new repository for the election
- Create an `ec-<YEAR>` team for the EC and give it admin access to the repository
- Ensure the existence of an election GitHub App, reusable for every election.
  To create it initially:
  - Have an org owner [create a new App](https://github.com/organizations/NixOS/settings/apps/new)
    - Title: Nix Elections
    - URL: https://nixos.org
    - Disable Webhooks
    - Permissions:
      - Repository Permissions > Pull Requests: Read and write
      - Repository Permissions > Contents: Read and write
      - Organization Permissions > Members: Read and write
  - Ensure the App is installed on the org
  - Give the App access to the current election repository
  - Set the App ID as a new repository variable named `APP_ID`
  - Generate a private key for the App and set it as a new repository secret named `PRIVATE_KEY`

### For the admins of the `nixos.org` mailserver
- Set up `elections@nixos.org` as an alias for the EC members addresses
- Send the mail server, SMTP user and password to the EC members, potentially regenerating the password to revoke access to previous EC members
- Make sure that you have a good enough email setup for sending many emails

### For the Matrix admins
- Ensure that a public Matrix room for the elections is set up
- Make sure the EC has moderator permissions for the room

### For the EC
- Set the SMTP password as a new repository secret with key `SMTP_PASSWORD`
- Create a private room for the EC members to decide over things (Matrix or otherwise)
- In the repositories Moderation options, limit interactions to repository collaborators for the maximum possible duration (should be 6 months)
- Set up branch protection for the repo
- Set up a GitHub team for the voters:
  - Create a team for the voters:
    - Name: Voters <YEAR>
    - Description: Voters for the <YEAR> Steering Committee election"
    - Team visibility: Visible
    - Team notifications: Enabled
  - Remove yourself as team maintainer, the automation will maintain the team
  - Add the voter team as a repository collaborator with the read role
  - Set the team's slug (should be `voters-<YEAR>`) as a new repository variable named `VOTER_TEAM`
- Ensure that a "nomination" and "question" label exists for the repository
- Initialise the repo from the previous election.

  **Important:** Before pushing, empty `voters.json` to prevent automation from inviting all those users already

  - Remove or empty `scripts/invited.txt`
  - Remove `usersWithoutEmailAndGitHub.txt`
  - Empty `candidates`
  - Ensure the repo reflects the current version of the Nix Governance Constitution
  - Check that the voting platform is still functional and find an alternative otherwise
  - Grep for `TODO` in the repo and address it as necessary
  - Update the year
  - Update the EC contact info
  - Decide on the timeline and update it in the `README` and other places
- Pick a cut-off date and set it as `endEpoch` in [`config.nix`](../nix/config.nix).
  Set the `startEpoch` to 4 years before the `endEpoch`.

  Then prebuild the GitHub data and push it to a cache:
  ```
  nix-build -A data.prebuiltDerivations | cachix push nca
  ```

  This takes a lot of resources!
- Make a test run of everything and improve things as necessary.

  Note that if you test in a private repo, you should [enable private repo forking](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-organization-settings/managing-the-forking-policy-for-your-organization)
  and maybe [set the base organisation access](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-user-access-to-your-organizations-repositories/managing-repository-roles/setting-base-permissions-for-an-organization) to None,
  because the GitHub App invites users to the organisation, which gives them access to all private repos by default.
- Create a retro document to write things down that could be improved for the future.

### For every EC member
- Make sure every EC member can send and receive emails from `elections@nixos.org`.
  If ImprovMX is still the Mail service used, follow [this tutorial](https://help.improvmx.com/improvmx-smtp-how-tos).

  Make sure to set the identity to "Nix Election Committee" or so
- Enable notifications for the public Matrix room
- Subscribe to all activity on the election repository

## Kick-off
- Update the blocked users list:
  Get the GitHub ids using
  ```
  gh api /orgs/NixOS/blocks --jq '.[].id'
  ```

  Then Insert them into [`config.nix`](../nix/config.nix).

  Don't update this once the voters are generated.
- Generate `voters.json` using
  ```
  nix-build -A generateVoters
  ./result
  ```
- Announce it to discourse:
  ```
  nix-build ec -A announce.discourse
  ```

  Then post the contents of `result` to Discourse
- Announce it on the website, linking to discourse:
  ```
  nix-build ec -A announce.website --argstr discourseLink $DISCOURSE_LINK
  ```

  Then make a PR against [the website announcements](https://github.com/NixOS/nixos-homepage/tree/main/src/content/blog/announcements) and ping somebody from the marketing team to merge it.
- Push the generated `voters.json` to start triggering team additions
- Send the emails (needs `SMTP_PASSWORD` set):
  ```
  nix-build ec -A announce.email --argstr discourseLink $DISCOURSE_LINK
  ./result
  ```

  If any fail to send, resume using
  ```
  ./result --resume
  ```

  You can view failed sends in `jobs.log`, but you might also get mail delivery failure responses.
- Announce it on GitHub:

  Wait until both:
  - All automatically eligible voters have been invited to the team
  - All emails are sent

  ```
  nix-build ec -A announce.github --argstr discourseLink $DISCOURSE_LINK
  ```

  Then post `./result` as a PR to the election repo,
  requesting a review from the voters GitHub team.
- Directly contact the users in `usersWithoutEmailAndGitHub.txt`

## Pre-voting phase

- See [this process](./process.md)
- Organise the Q&A

## Starting the voting phase
- Determine which pairs of candidates share the same conflict of interest

## Post-voting phase

## Misc

- Create the candidate documents
- Making announcements
- Running CIVS
- Unsubscribe people

In case somebody is violating the Q&A rules, their access to the repo can be removed by setting their id in `voters.json` to `null`

- Write a script to check exception requests or maybe a triggerable CI action.
  - Invite the person to the repo
  - Create a PR to add them to the voters.json, and ping them in the description
  - They need to upvote the PR to get accepted
  - Don't mention the user in the commit, because it's confusing to receive an email for that
  - Tell them in the PR what they can do now

Sending reminders:
- 2024-09-23 Monday: (Reminder)
- 2024-09-30: Finalise the list of candidates, publish their documents
- 2024-10-14 Monday: (vote reminder)
