doc/nominate.md, before:

# How to nominate

All [eligible voters](../README.md#eligible-voters) can nominate any other eligible voter, including themselves.

## How to nominate yourself

1. Familiarise yourself with the [Nix Community Values](https://github.com/NixOS/nix-constitutional-assembly/blob/main/values.md) and the [Nix Governance Constitution](https://github.com/NixOS/nix-constitutional-assembly/blob/main/constitution.md).
   If you become an SC member, you will need to uphold these.
   If you have any questions about these documents, feel free to [contact the EC](../README.md#election-committee-ec).
1. Ensure that you're in the [@NixOS/voters-2024 team](https://github.com/orgs/NixOS/teams/voters-2024)
   and otherwise [request a voter exception](./exception-request.md).
1. Ensure that your [email is correct](./email.md) and
   create a PR to add an *empty* `candidates/<github handle>.md` file matching your GitHub handle.
   This is easiest [directly on GitHub](https://github.com/NixOS/SC-election-2024/new/main?filename=candidates/%3Cgithub%20handle%3E.md).
   The PR title must contain your GitHub handle and PR description should be left empty.
1. You will receive an email asking you to send back the filled-out [candidate template](../doc/candidate-template.md).
   If you become a candidate, this document will be published and linked on the ballot.
1. Find at least 3 other people in the [@NixOS/voters-2024 team](https://github.com/orgs/NixOS/teams/voters-2024) to [endorse](./endorse.md) you,
   such that among you and the endorsers,
   there are at least four people with no two sharing a [conflict of interest](./conflict-of-interest.md).

## How to nominate somebody else

1. Make sure they haven't been nominated already and ask them if they'd like to be nominated.
1. Ensure that you and the nominee are in the [@NixOS/voters-2024 team](https://github.com/orgs/NixOS/teams/voters-2024)
   and otherwise [request voter exceptions](./exception-request.md).
1. Ensure that your [email is correct](./email.md) and
   create a PR to add an *empty* `candidates/<github handle>.md` file matching the nominees GitHub handle.
   This is easiest [directly on GitHub](https://github.com/NixOS/SC-election-2024/new/main?filename=candidates/%3Cgithub%20handle%3E.md).
   The PR title must contain your GitHub handle and PR description should be left empty.
1. By nominating somebody, you also automatically [endorse](./endorse.md) the nominee.
   You'll receive an Email on how to complete the endorsement.

Commit message:

Various improvements
- Email -> email, not sure why I thought it was uppercase before
- Registering -> activating email addresses, let's match the terminology
  CIVS uses
- Remove extra words that aren't necessary
- More consistent deadline pointers throughout

doc/nominate.md, after:

# How to nominate

All [eligible voters](../README.md#eligible-voters) can nominate any other eligible voter, including themselves.

Be aware of the [the timeline](../README.md#timeline): The deadline for nominations is 2024-09-29.

## How to nominate yourself

1. Familiarise yourself with the [Nix Community Values](https://github.com/NixOS/nix-constitutional-assembly/blob/main/values.md) and the [Nix Governance Constitution](https://github.com/NixOS/nix-constitutional-assembly/blob/main/constitution.md).
   If you become an SC member, you will need to uphold these.
   If you have any questions about these documents, feel free to [contact the EC](../README.md#election-committee-ec).
1. Ensure that you're in the [@NixOS/voters-2024 team](https://github.com/orgs/NixOS/teams/voters-2024)
   and otherwise [request a voter exception](./exception-request.md).
1. Ensure that your [email is correct](./email.md) and
   create a PR to add an *empty* `candidates/<github handle>.md` file matching your GitHub handle.
   This is easiest [directly on GitHub](https://github.com/NixOS/SC-election-2024/new/main?filename=candidates/%3Cgithub%20handle%3E.md).
   The PR title must contain your GitHub handle and PR description should be left empty.
1. You will receive an email asking you to send back the filled-out [candidate template](../doc/candidate-template.md).
   If you become a candidate, this document will be published and linked on the ballot.
1. [Until Tuesday 2024-10-01](../README.md#timeline),
   find at least 3 other people in the [@NixOS/voters-2024 team](https://github.com/orgs/NixOS/teams/voters-2024) to [endorse](./endorse.md) you,
   such that among you and the endorsers,
   there are at least four people with no two sharing a [conflict of interest](./conflict-of-interest.md).

## How to nominate somebody else

1. Make sure they haven't been nominated already and ask them if they'd like to be nominated.
1. Ensure that you and the nominee are in the [@NixOS/voters-2024 team](https://github.com/orgs/NixOS/teams/voters-2024)
   and otherwise [request voter exceptions](./exception-request.md).
1. Ensure that your [email is correct](./email.md) and
   create a PR to add an *empty* `candidates/<github handle>.md` file matching the nominees GitHub handle.
   This is easiest [directly on GitHub](https://github.com/NixOS/SC-election-2024/new/main?filename=candidates/%3Cgithub%20handle%3E.md).
   The PR title must contain your GitHub handle and PR description should be left empty.
1. By nominating somebody, you also automatically [endorse](./endorse.md) the nominee.
   You'll receive an email with info on how to complete the endorsement.
