doc/vote.md, before:

# How to cast a vote

Prerequisites to be able to vote:
- To be an [eligible voter](../README.md#eligible-voters).
  If you are not, you can [request an exception](./exception-request.md).
- To have a valid Email address listed in [`voters.json`](../voters.json).
  If that's not the case, make sure to [update it](./email.md).

Make sure to check the above [before the election lock-in](../README.md#lock-in) on Monday 2024-10-07.

## Email registration

To actually vote, you also need to register the same Email address as in `voters.json` with [CIVS](https://civs1.civs.us/)
by going to the [CIVS Activate User page](https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/opt_in.pl) and following the steps:
1. Enter your email and click "Request Activation Code"
1. Go to your inbox, you should've received an email from <civs@cornell.edu>, copy the code
1. Insert it into the page and click "Complete activation"


Note that we don't recommend unregistering your email,
as it's likely that CIVS will also be used for future elections.
You can do so anyways on the [CIVS Mail Management page](https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/mail_mgmt.pl),
but note the warning.

## Casting a vote

If you registered your email, you'll get an email from CIVS once the poll starts, otherwise you'll get a reminder to activate it from the EC.

If the voting period already started, on the registration page you will see the link under "Pending poll invitations"

To cast a vote, follow the steps on the voting page.

TODO: Insert pictures or so

Please don't give your receipt away to others, this allows them to vote for you, without you being able to override their vote again.

Commit message:

Various improvements
- Email -> email, not sure why I thought it was uppercase before
- Registering -> activating email addresses, let's match the terminology
  CIVS uses
- Remove extra words that aren't necessary
- More consistent deadline pointers throughout

doc/vote.md, after:

# How to cast a vote

Prerequisites to be able to vote:
- To be an [eligible voter](../README.md#eligible-voters).
  If you are not, you can [request an exception](./exception-request.md).
- To have a valid email address listed in [`voters.json`](../voters.json).
  If that's not the case, make sure to [update it](./email.md).

Be aware of the [the timeline](../README.md#timeline): The deadline for updating emails addresses is Sunday 2024-10-06.

## Email activation

To be able to vote, you also need to activate your email address on the voting platform:
1. Go to the [CIVS Activate User page](https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/opt_in.pl)
2. Follow the steps using your email address in `voters.json`

## Casting a vote

If you activated your email, you'll get an email from CIVS once the poll starts, otherwise you'll get a reminder to activate it from the EC.

If the voting period already started, on the email activation page you will see the link under "Pending poll invitations". If you missed this, go through the email activation again.

To cast a vote, follow the steps on the voting page.

TODO: Insert pictures or so

Please don't give your receipt away to others, this allows them to vote for you, without you being able to override their vote again.

The deadline for voting is Sunday 2024-10-20.

## Email deactivation

We don't recommend deactivating your email,
as it's likely that CIVS will also be used for future elections,
but you can do so anyways on the [CIVS Mail Management page](https://civs1.civs.us/cgi-bin/mail_mgmt.pl),
note the warning.
